---
title: "Welcome!"
author: kev
date: 2023-03-15 13:00:00 +0100
categories: [General]
tags: [Welcome]
pin: true
---

# Hello there!

## Introduction

Welcome to my blog, nice to meet you!  

My name is Kevin, at the point of writing this i am 30 years old and live in Aachen, Germany.  
I work as an engineer in the automotive industry, mainly in testing and validating autonomous driving systems in new vehicles.

In my free time i enjoy envolving in all sorts of diy projects: In the last few years i built lots of funiture, speakers, different smart home gadgets and a 3D Printer, with wich in turn i build a whole lot of little toys, decoration, all sorts of brackets and tools to use in my project and around my apartement. In the summer months i also grow vegetables on my rooftop terrace. I exclusively use linux distributions on my pcs and servers, so i have gathered some experience with building and administrating linux systems, but unfortunately that means that my tutorials will most likely not be very wholesome for windows users.

In the future i will use this blog to document my projects and write tutorials, as much for myself as for everyone else.

[Introduction here]


## What you will see

This is a rough list of topics and projects i am currently planning on writing about.  
As the blog develops and fills, you will be able to find these posts using the navigation on the left and i also will update this list and link the posts that are already written.

- Linux
  - Setting up a homeserver with ubuntu and docker:
    - Choosing hardware: Raspberry Pi vs ThinClients vs Old Laptops
    - Installing Ubuntu and basic setup for remote administration
      - SSH
      - ddclient
    - setting up docker and docker compose
    - Installing, running and maintaining different selfhosted services
      - Nextcloud
      - Jellyfin
      - Audiobookshelf
      - PiHole
      - Home Assistant
    - automating everything with ansible
- Home Automation
  - Setting up Home Assistant with docker
    - MQTT
    - HACS
  - Choosing and setting up different smarthome devices:
    - Shelly Plugs and switches
    - Zigbee devices
  - Building custom smarthome devices
    - Automated doorlock
    - Macroboard for smarthome control
    - DIY Control for antient Gas Heaters
- 3D Printing
  - Building a custom CoreXY 3D Printer from scratch
  - Setting up and configuring a 3D Printer with Klipper
  - Calibration and Maintenance of your 3D Printer.